README.md, before:

# AETHER: Autonomous, Evolving, Tamper-proof Honeypot Ecosystem with Reactive Intelligence

[![Scientific Preprint](https://img.shields.io/badge/Preprint-TechRxiv-blue)](https://www.techrxiv.org/users/938624/articles/1308701-aether-autonomous-evolving-tamper-proof-honeypot-ecosystem-with-reactive-intelligence)

![AETHER Intro](assets/intro.png)

AETHER is a next-generation, deception-centric cyber defense organism designed to neutralize advanced persistent threats (APTs) through **Reactive Intelligence** and **Dynamic Digital Illusions**. Unlike traditional static honeypots, AETHER evolves its complexity in real-time based on adversary behavior.

## 🔬 Scientific Foundation

AETHER shifts the paradigm from **Passive Detection** to **Active Engagement**. Most honeypots are static decoys that are easily identified by sophisticated actors. AETHER implements an "Evolutionary Deception" model.

![AETHER Brain](assets/AETHER_brain.png)

### Core Paradigms
- **Reactive Intelligence**: The system analyzes tactical intent and generates context-aware responses.
- **Synthesized Illusions**: Leveraging generative principles to create fake banners, error messages, and data leaks.
- **Tamper-Proof Architecture**: Core logic is decoupled from the deception surface.

## 🧮 Mathematical Framework

AETHER's decision engine is modeled as a state-space transition system.

### 1. The Interaction State Vector ($s_t$)

$$
s_t = \{P, I, \Sigma, \mathcal{B}\}
$$

### 2. Generative Deception Function ($G_{\phi}$)

$$
I_t = G_{\phi}(s_t, z)
$$

### 3. Adversary Confusion Index (ACI)

$$
\mathcal{C}_{t+1} = \mathcal{C}_t + \alpha \cdot \Delta \mathcal{K}
$$

## 🔄 The AETHER Process

The system follows a continuous loop of detection, analysis, and deception.

![AETHER Working Demo](assets/aether_working.gif)

### Step-by-Step Working:

1.  **Adversary Initialization**: The system detects an incoming threat actor (Attacker).
    ![Enemy Detection](assets/enemy.png)
2.  **Behavioral Analysis**: AETHER analyzes the attack vector and assigns a maliciousness score.
3.  **Dynamic Engagement**: The orchestrator deploys context-aware decoys.
    ![UI Interface](assets/ui.png)
4.  **Real-time Monitoring**: The defense progress is tracked via the AETHER Dashboard.
    ![Battle Progress](assets/battle_progress.png)
5.  **Live Intelligence**: All interactions are logged in a live telemetry feed for forensic analysis.
    ![Live Feed](assets/livefeed.png)

## 🏗️ Architecture

AETHER is composed of three primary modules:
1.  **AETHER Core (Orchestrator)**
2.  **Generative Decoy Module (The Illusionist)**
3.  **Behavioral Analysis Engine**

![Homepage Overview](assets/homepage.png)

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites
```bash
pip install flask
```

### Running the System
```bash
# Dashboard
python app.py

# CLI Simulation
python main.py
```

## 📚 Research & Publication

Our core research on the AETHER ecosystem is detailed in our latest publication. You can access the paper using the links below.

<div align="center">
  <a href="docs/AETHER__Autonomous__Evolving__Tamper_proof_Honeypot_Ecosystem_with_Reactive_Intelligence%20(final).pdf">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Read%20Research%20Paper-PDF%20Viewer-red?style=for-the-badge&logo=adobeacrobatreader" alt="Read PDF">
  </a>
  <br>
  <i>Click the button above to open the research paper in GitHub's native viewer.</i>
</div>

[![AETHER Paper Preview](assets/intro.png)](docs/AETHER__Autonomous__Evolving__Tamper_proof_Honeypot_Ecosystem_with_Reactive_Intelligence%20(final).pdf)

> [!TIP]
> **Citation**: Singh, G., & Singh, M. (2025). *AETHER: Autonomous, Evolving, Tamper-proof Honeypot Ecosystem with Reactive Intelligence*. TechRxiv. 
> [**Read on TechRxiv**](https://www.techrxiv.org/users/938624/articles/1308701-aether-autonomous-evolving-tamper-proof-honeypot-ecosystem-with-reactive-intelligence) | [**View Local PDF**](docs/AETHER__Autonomous__Evolving__Tamper_proof_Honeypot_Ecosystem_with_Reactive_Intelligence%20(final).pdf)

---
*Developed with Reactive Intelligence for the next generation of Cyber-Defensive Organisms.*

Commit message:

Expand README with technical deep-dives on DNA, complexity, and threat surfaces

README.md, after:

# AETHER: Autonomous, Evolving, Tamper-proof Honeypot Ecosystem with Reactive Intelligence

[![Scientific Preprint](https://img.shields.io/badge/Preprint-TechRxiv-blue)](https://www.techrxiv.org/users/938624/articles/1308701-aether-autonomous-evolving-tamper-proof-honeypot-ecosystem-with-reactive-intelligence)

![AETHER Intro](assets/intro.png)

AETHER is a next-generation, deception-centric cyber defense organism designed to neutralize advanced persistent threats (APTs) through **Reactive Intelligence** and **Dynamic Digital Illusions**. Unlike traditional static honeypots, AETHER evolves its complexity in real-time based on adversary behavior.

## 🔬 Scientific Foundation

AETHER shifts the paradigm from **Passive Detection** to **Active Engagement**. Most honeypots are static decoys that are easily identified by sophisticated actors. AETHER implements an "Evolutionary Deception" model.

![AETHER Brain](assets/AETHER_brain.png)

### Core Paradigms
- **Reactive Intelligence**: The system analyzes tactical intent and generates context-aware responses.
- **Synthesized Illusions**: Leveraging generative principles to create fake banners, error messages, and data leaks.
- **Tamper-Proof Architecture**: Core logic is decoupled from the deception surface.

### 🧬 Digital DNA & Behavioral Fingerprinting
AETHER implements a unique "Digital DNA" extraction process. Every interaction is parsed into a multi-dimensional feature set that captures the attacker's "genetic" profile. 
- **Tactical DNA**: Encodes the sequence of commands and exploit attempts.
- **Genetic Evolution**: As the attacker iterates, AETHER updates the DNA profile, allowing the defense to anticipate the next "mutation" in the attack vector.

## 🧮 Mathematical Framework

AETHER's decision engine is modeled as a state-space transition system.

### 1. The Interaction State Vector ($s_t$)

$$
s_t = \{P, I, \Sigma, \mathcal{B}\}
$$

### 2. Generative Deception Function ($G_{\phi}$)

$$
I_t = G_{\phi}(s_t, z)
$$

### 3. Adversary Confusion Index (ACI)

$$
\mathcal{C}_{t+1} = \mathcal{C}_t + \alpha \cdot \Delta \mathcal{K}
$$

## 🔄 The AETHER Process

The system follows a continuous loop of detection, analysis, and deception.

![AETHER Working Demo](assets/aether_working.gif)

### Step-by-Step Working:

1.  **Adversary Initialization**: The system detects an incoming threat actor (Attacker).
    ![Enemy Detection](assets/enemy.png)
2.  **Behavioral Analysis**: AETHER analyzes the attack vector and assigns a maliciousness score.
3.  **Dynamic Engagement**: The orchestrator deploys context-aware decoys.
    ![UI Interface](assets/ui.png)
4.  **Real-time Monitoring**: The defense progress is tracked via the AETHER Dashboard.
    ![Battle Progress](assets/battle_progress.png)
5.  **Live Intelligence**: All interactions are logged in a live telemetry feed for forensic analysis.
    ![Live Feed](assets/livefeed.png)

## 🏗️ Architecture

AETHER is composed of three primary modules:
1.  **AETHER Core (Orchestrator)**
2.  **Generative Decoy Module (The Illusionist)**
3.  **Behavioral Analysis Engine**

![Homepage Overview](assets/homepage.png)

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites
```bash
pip install flask
```

### Running the System
```bash
# Dashboard
python app.py

# CLI Simulation
python main.py
```

## 📚 Research & Publication

Our core research on the AETHER ecosystem is detailed in our latest publication. You can access the paper using the links below.

<div align="center">
  <a href="docs/AETHER__Autonomous__Evolving__Tamper_proof_Honeypot_Ecosystem_with_Reactive_Intelligence%20(final).pdf">
    <img src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Read%20Research%20Paper-PDF%20Viewer-red?style=for-the-badge&logo=adobeacrobatreader" alt="Read PDF">
  </a>
  <br>
  <i>Click the button above to open the research paper in GitHub's native viewer.</i>
</div>

[![AETHER Paper Preview](assets/intro.png)](docs/AETHER__Autonomous__Evolving__Tamper_proof_Honeypot_Ecosystem_with_Reactive_Intelligence%20(final).pdf)

> [!TIP]
> **Citation**: Singh, G., & Singh, M. (2025). *AETHER: Autonomous, Evolving, Tamper-proof Honeypot Ecosystem with Reactive Intelligence*. TechRxiv. 
> [**Read on TechRxiv**](https://www.techrxiv.org/users/938624/articles/1308701-aether-autonomous-evolving-tamper-proof-honeypot-ecosystem-with-reactive-intelligence) | [**View Local PDF**](docs/AETHER__Autonomous__Evolving__Tamper_proof_Honeypot_Ecosystem_with_Reactive_Intelligence%20(final).pdf)

## 🛡️ Threat Surface Emulation

AETHER provides contextually rich emulation across several critical layers, ensuring that attackers remain engaged in a high-fidelity environment.

### 1. Secure Shell (SSH) Layer
Synthesizes varying banner versions (OpenSSH, Dropbear, Cisco) to match the expected profile of a high-value target. It handles authentication attempts by injecting artificial latency, mimicking real-world processing overhead.

### 2. Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP/S) Layer
Generates dynamic web traps, including fake login pages, 403 Forbidden errors with leaked "debug info," and 500 Internal Server errors. The generative engine ensures that headers (Server, Content-Type) remain consistent with the illusion.

### 3. Database (SQL) Layer
Implements "Honeytokens" at the database driver level. When SQL injection is detected, AETHER returns syntactically correct but functionally fake error messages (MySQL, Oracle, PostgreSQL), leading the attacker into a rabbit hole of non-existent vulnerabilities.

## 📈 Adaptive Complexity Engine

The **Adaptive Complexity Engine** is the heart of AETHER's evolutionary capability. It monitors the **Adversary Confusion Index (ACI)** and adjusts the fidelity of the decoys in real-time.

- **Phase I: Interaction Monitoring**: Passive analysis of reconnaissance traffic.
- **Phase II: Engagement Escalation**: If the attacker persists, AETHER increases the complexity of the "data leaks" and internal system responses.
- **Phase III: Exhaustion**: The system introduces infinite recursion in directory structures or circular dependencies in API responses, designed to stall automated tools and frustrate human actors.

---
*Developed with Reactive Intelligence for the next generation of Cyber-Defensive Organisms.*
